[![mailchimp3 v2.1.0 on PyPi](https://img.shields.io/badge/pypi-2.1.0-green.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mailchimp3)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-MIT-blue.svg)
![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-stable-green.svg)

# python-mailchimp-api

A straighforward python client for v3 of MailChimp API using
requests >= 2.7.0.

## Getting Started

### Installation

This client is hosted at PyPi under the name `mailchimp3`, to install
it, simply run

`pip install mailchimp3`

### Upgrading from v2.0.x

The order of arguments for initializing the Mailchimp API has been
reversed starting in 2.1.0 as the username is an optional argument for
basic auth. Please reverse the order of your arguments or remove the
username argument entirely. The name of the authentication argument has
also changed from `mc_secret` to `mc_api`.

### Upgrading from v1.x

The installation procedure for 2.x is the same as before, however
there are a massive number of changes to the naming conventions within
this wrapper and the way in which certain methods are called. Please
read the documentation below carefully for information on the new
structure and expanded functionality. With this release, all documented
endpoints are implemented and all endpoint methods are available.

### History

Up to date with [changelog](http://developer.mailchimp.com/documentation/mailchimp/guides/changelog/)
features listed thru 3/03/2017.

### Initialization

Grab `YOUR_API_KEY` from your mailchimp account (Account > Extra > Api
Keys). `YOUR_USERNAME` is the one you use to login on the website and
is optional.

    from mailchimp3 import MailChimp

    client = MailChimp('YOUR_API_KEY', 'YOUR_USERNAME')

### OAuth Support

In addition to HTTP Basic Authentication, MailChimp supports
authentication through OAuth2. Information on obtaining the proper
access key can be found
[here](http://developer.mailchimp.com/documentation/mailchimp/guides/how-to-use-oauth2/).

### Pagination

Simply add `count` and `offset` arguments in your function. The count
is how many records to return, the offset is how many records to skip.
For endpoints that allow the pagination parameters, the all() method
has an additional boolean `get_all` argument that will loop through all
records until the API no longer returns any to get all records without
manually performing an additional query. By default, count is 10 and
offset is 0 for all endpoints that support it. The `get_all` parameter
on the all() method on any endpoint defaults to false, which follows
the values that are provided in the call, and using `get_all=True` will
ignore the provided count and offset to ensure that all records are
returned. When using get_all, the count will be 5000, to fetch large
numbers of records without flooding the system with requests. The large
size of count should not impact calls which are expected to return a
very small number of records, and should improve performance for calls
where fetching 5000 records would only provide a fraction by preventing
the delay of making a huge number of requests.

    client.lists.members.all('123456', count=100, offset=0)

### Fields

Many endpoints allow you to select which fields will be returned out of
all available fields (for example, only the email_address of a member).
Simply add `fields` arguments in your function. The following only
display email_address and id for each member in list 123456:

    client.lists.members.all('123456', get_all=True, fields="members.email_address,members.id")

### Examples

    # returns all the lists (only name and id)
    client.lists.all(get_all=True, fields="lists.name,lists.id")

    # returns all members inside list '123456'
    client.lists.members.all('123456', get_all=True)

    # return the first 100 member's email addresses for the list with id 123456
    client.lists.members.all('123456', count=100, offset=0, fields="members.email_address")

    # returns the list matching id '123456'
    client.lists.get('123456')

    # add John Doe with email john.doe@example.com to list matching id '123456'
    client.lists.members.create('123456', {
        'email_address': 'john.doe@example.com',
        'status': 'subscribed',
        'merge_fields': {
            'FNAME': 'John',
            'LNAME': 'Doe',
        },
    })

    # returns all the campaigns
    client.campaigns.all(get_all=True)

    # You can also disable at runtime with the optional ``enabled`` parameter.
    # Every API call will return None
    client = MailChimp('YOUR USERNAME', 'YOUR SECRET KEY', enabled=False)

    # You are encouraged to specify a value in seconds for the ``timeout``
    # parameter to avoid hanging requests.
    client = MailChimp('YOUR USERNAME', 'YOUR SECRET KEY', timeout=10.0)

    # You are encouraged to specify a User-Agent for requests to the MailChimp
    # API. Headers can be specified using the ``request_headers`` parameter.
    headers = requests.utils.default_headers()
    headers['User-Agent'] = 'Example (example@example.com)'
    client = MailChimp('YOUR USERNAME', 'YOUR SECRET KEY',
                       request_headers=headers)

## API Structure

All endpoints follow the structure listed in the official MailChimp API
v3 documentation. The structure will be listed below and then the
individual methods available after.

    MailChimp
    +- Root
    +- Authorized Apps
    +- Automations
    |  +- Actions
    |  +- Emails
    |  |  +- Actions
    |  |  +- Queues
    |  +- Removed Subscribers
    +- Batch Operations
    +- Batch Webhooks
    +- Campaign Folders
    +- Campaigns
    |  +- Actions
    |  +- Content
    |  +- Feedback
    |  +- Send Checklist
    +- Conversations
    |  +- Messages
    +- Stores
    |  +- Carts
    |  |  +- Lines
    |  +- Customers
    |  +- Orders
    |  |  +- Lines
    |  +- Products
    |     +- Images
    |     +- Variants
    +- File Manager Files
    +- File Manager Folders
    +- Lists
    |  +- Abuse Reports
    |  +- Activity
    |  +- Clients
    |  +- Growth History
    |  +- Interest Categories
    |  |  +- Interests
    |  +- Members
    |  |  +- Activity
    |  |  +- Goals
    |  |  +- Notes
    |  +- Merge Fields
    |  +- Segments
    |  |  +- Segment Members
    |  +- Signup Forms
    |  +- Twitter Lead Generation Carts
    |  +- Webhooks
    +- Reports
    |  +- Campaign Abuse
    |  +- Campaign Advice
    |  +- Campaign Open Details
    |  +- Click Reports
    |  |  +- Members
    |  +- Domain Performance
    |  +- EepURL Reports
    |  +- Email Activity
    |  +- Location
    |  +- Sent To
    |  +- Sub-Reports
    |  +- Unsubscribes
    +- Seach Campaigns
    +- Search Members
    +- Template Folders
    +- Templates
       +- Default Content

## API Endpoints

Below is the list of all endpoints and the methods that can be called
against them. Any endpoint that has a method that takes an ID argument
(for example the app_id in the authorized_apps endpoint or the
subscriber_hash in the list members endpoints) will record all IDs
passed as well as those generated by methods that will only ever return
a single result such as the create() method present on some endpoints.
These stored attributes are only available at the level that they were
passed or created at and must be passed again to interact with a lower
or higher level such as accessing a list and then a member. The below
code assumes that you have initialized the MailChimp class as listed
above with the name `client`.

### Root

#### Root

    client.root.get()

### Authorized Apps

#### Authorized Apps

    client.authorized_apps.create(data={})
    client.authorized_apps.all(get_all=False)
    client.authorized_apps.get(app_id='')

### Automations

#### Automations

    client.automations.all(get_all=False)
    client.automations.get(workflow_id='')

#### Automation Actions

    client.automations.actions.pause(workflow_id='')
    client.automations.actions.start(workflow_id='')

#### Automation Emails

    client.automations.emails.all(workflow_id='')
    client.automations.emails.get(workflow_id='', email_id='')

#### Automation Email Actions

    client.automations.emails.actions.pause(workflow_id='', email_id='')
    client.automations.emails.actions.start(workflow_id='', email_id='')

#### Automation Email Queues

    client.automations.emails.queues.create(workflow_id='', email_id='', data={})
    client.automations.emails.queues.all(workflow_id='', email_id='')
    client.automations.emails.queues.get(workflow_id='', email_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### Automation Removed Subscribers

    client.automations.removed_subscribers.create(workflow_id='', data={})
    client.automations.removed_subscribers.all(workflow_id='')

### Batch Operations

#### Batch Operations

    client.batch_operations.create(data={})
    client.batch_operations.all(get_all=False)
    client.batch_operations.get(batch_id='')
    client.batch_operations.delete(batch_id='')

### Batch Webhooks

#### Batch Webhooks

    client.batch_webhooks.create(data={})
    client.batch_webhooks.all(get_all=False)
    client.batch_webhooks.get(batch_webhook_id='')
    client.batch_webhooks.update(batch_webhook_id='', data={})
    client.batch_webhooks.delete(batch_webhook_id='')

### Campaigns

#### Folders

    client.campaign_folders.create(data={})
    client.campaign_folders.all(get_all=False)
    client.campaign_folders.get(folder_id='')
    client.campaign_folders.update(folder_id='', data={})
    client.campaign_folders.delete(folder_id='')

#### Campaigns

    client.campaigns.create(data={})
    client.campaigns.all(get_all=False)
    client.campaigns.get(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.update(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.delete(campaign_id='')

#### Campaign Actions

    client.campaigns.actions.cancel(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.actions.pause(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.actions.replicate(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.actions.resume(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.actions.schedule(campaign_id='', data={})
    client.campaigns.actions.send(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.actions.test(campaign_id='', data={})
    client.campaigns.actions.unschedule(campaign_id='')

#### Campaign Content

    client.campaigns.content.get(campaign_id='')
    client.campaigns.content.update(campaign_id='', data={})

#### Campaign Feedback

    client.campaigns.feedback.create(campaign_id='', data={})
    client.campaigns.feedback.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)
    client.campaigns.feedback.get(campaign_id='', feedback_id='')
    client.campaigns.feedback.update(campaign_id='', feedback_id='', data={})
    client.campaigns.feedback.delete(campaign_id='', feedback_id='')

#### Campaign Send Checklist

    client.campaigns.send_checklist.get(campaign_id='')

### Conversations

#### Conversations

    client.conversations.all(get_all=False)
    client.conversations.get(conversation_id='')

#### Conversation Messages

    client.conversations.messages.create(conversation_id='', data={})
    client.conversations.messages.all(conversation_id='')
    client.conversations.messages.get(conversation_id='', message_id='')

### E-Commerce

#### Stores

    client.stores.create(data={})
    client.stores.all(get_all=False)
    client.stores.get(store_id='')
    client.stores.update(store_id='', data={})
    client.stores.delete(store_id='')

#### Store Carts

    client.stores.carts.create(store_id='', data={})
    client.stores.carts.all(store_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.carts.get(store_id='', cart_id='')
    client.stores.carts.update(store_id='', cart_id='', data={})
    client.stores.carts.delete(store_id='', cart_id='')

#### Store Cart Lines

    client.stores.carts.lines.create(store_id='', cart_id='', data={})
    client.stores.carts.lines.all(store_id='', cart_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.carts.lines.get(store_id='', cart_id='', line_id='')
    client.stores.carts.lines.update(store_id='', cart_id='', line_id='', data={})
    client.stores.carts.lines.delete(store_id='', cart_id='', line_id='')

#### Store Customers

    client.stores.customers.create(store_id='', data={})
    client.stores.customers.all(store_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.customers.get(store_id='', customer_id='')
    client.stores.customers.update(store_id='', customer_id='', data={})
    client.stores.customers.create_or_update(store_id='', customer_id='', data={})
    client.stores.customers.delete(store_id='', customer_id='')

#### Store Orders

    client.stores.orders.create(store_id='', data={})
    client.stores.orders.all(store_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.orders.get(store_id='', order_id='')
    client.stores.orders.update(store_id='', order_id='', data={})
    client.stores.orders.delete(store_id='', order_id='')

#### Store Order Lines

    client.stores.orders.lines.create(store_id='', order_id='', data={})
    client.stores.orders.lines.all(store_id='', order_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.orders.lines.get(store_id='', order_id='', line_id='')
    client.stores.orders.lines.update(store_id='', order_id='', line_id='', data={})
    client.stores.orders.lines.delete(store_id='', order_id='', line_id='')

#### Store Products

    client.stores.products.create(store_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.all(store_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.products.get(store_id='', product_id='')
    client.stores.products.update(store_id='', product_id='')
    client.stores.products.delete(store_id='', product_id='')

#### Store Product Images

    client.stores.products.images.create(store_id='', product_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.images.all(store_id='', product_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.products.images.get(store_id='', product_id='', image_id='')
    client.stores.products.images.update(store_id='', product_id='', image_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.images.delete(store_id='', product_id='', image_id='')

#### Store Product Variants

    client.stores.products.variants.create(store_id='', product_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.variants.all(store_id='', product_id='', get_all=False)
    client.stores.products.variants.get(store_id='', product_id='', variant_id='')
    client.stores.products.variants.update(store_id='', product_id='', variant_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.variants.create_or_update(store_id='', product_id='', variant_id='', data={})
    client.stores.products.variants.delete(store_id='', product_id='', variant_id='')

### File Manager

#### Files

    client.files.create(data={})
    client.files.all(get_all=False)
    client.files.get(file_id='')
    client.files.update(file_id='', data={})
    client.files.delete(file_id='')

#### Folders

    client.folders.create(data={})
    client.folders.all(get_all=False)
    client.folders.get(folder_id='')
    client.folders.update(folder_id='', data={})
    client.folders.delete(folder_id='')

### Lists

#### Lists

    client.lists.create(data={})
    client.lists.update_members(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.all(get_all=False)
    client.lists.get(list_id='')
    client.lists.update(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.delete(list_id='')

#### List Abuse Reports

    client.lists.abuse_reports.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.abuse_reports.get(list_id='', report_id='')

#### List Activity

    client.lists.activity.all(list_id='')

#### List Clients

    client.lists.clients.all(list_id='')

#### List Growth History

    client.lists.growth_history.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.growth_history.get(list_id='', month='')

#### List Interest Categories

    client.lists.interest_categories.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.interest_categories.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.interest_categories.get(list_id='', category_id='')
    client.lists.interest_categories.update(list_id='', category_id='', data={})
    client.lists.interest_categories.delete(list_id='', category_id='')

#### List Interest Category Interests

    client.lists.interest_categories.interests.create(list_id='', category_id='', data={})
    client.lists.interest_categories.interests.all(list_id='', category_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.interest_categories.interests.get(list_id='', category_id='', interest_id='')
    client.lists.interest_categories.interests.update(list_id='', category_id='', interest_id='', data={})
    client.lists.interest_categories.interests.delete(list_id='', category_id='', interest_id='')

#### List Members

    client.lists.members.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.members.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.members.get(list_id='', subscriber_hash='')
    client.lists.members.update(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', data={})
    client.lists.members.create_or_update(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', data={})
    client.lists.members.delete(list_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### List Member Activity

    client.lists.members.activity.all(list_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### List Member Goals

    client.lists.members.goals.all(list_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### List Member Notes

    client.lists.members.notes.create(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', data={})
    client.lists.members.notes.all(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.members.notes.get(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', note_id='')
    client.lists.members.notes.update(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', note_id='', data={})
    client.lists.members.notes.delete(list_id='', subscriber_hash='', note_id='')

#### List Merge Fields

    client.lists.merge_fields.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.merge_fields.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.merge_fields.get(list_id='', merge_id='')
    client.lists.merge_fields.update(list_id='', merge_id='', data={})
    client.lists.merge_fields.delete(list_id='', merge_id='')

#### List Segments

    client.lists.segments.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.segments.all(list_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.segments.get(list_id='', segment_id='')
    client.lists.segments.update(list_id='', segment_id='', data={})
    client.lists.segments.update_members(list_id='', segment_id='', data={})
    client.lists.segments.delete(list_id='', segment_id='')

#### List Segment Members

    client.lists.segments.members.create(list_id='', segment_id='', data={})
    client.lists.segments.members.all(list_id='', segment_id='', get_all=False)
    client.lists.segments.members.delete(list_id='', segment_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### List Signup Forms

    client.lists.signup_forms.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.signup_forms.all(list_id='')

#### List Webhooks

    client.lists.webhooks.create(list_id='', data={})
    client.lists.webhooks.all(list_id='')
    client.lists.webhooks.get(list_id='', webhook_id='')
    client.lists.webhooks.update(list_id='', webhook_id='', data={})
    client.lists.webhooks.delete(list_id='', webhook_id='')

### Reports

#### Reports

    client.reports.all(get_all=False)
    client.reports.get(campaign_id='')

#### Campaign Abuse Reports

    client.reports.abuse_reports.all(campaign_id='')
    client.reports.abuse_reports.get(campaign_id='', report_id='')

#### Campaign Advice

    client.reports.advice.all(campaign_id='')
    
#### Campaign Open Details

    client.reports.open_details.all(campaign_id='')

#### Click Details Report

    client.reports.click_details.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)
    client.reports.click_details.get(campaign_id='', link_id='')

#### Click Details Report Members

    client.reports.click_details.members.all(campaign_id='', link_id='', get_all=False)
    client.reports.click_details.members.get(campaign_id='', link_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### Domain Performance Reports

    client.reports.domain_performance.all(campaign_id='')

#### EepURL Reports

    client.reports.eepurl.all(camnpaign_id='')

#### Email Activity Reports

    client.reports.email_activity.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)
    client.reports.email_activity.get(campaign_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### Locations Report

    client.reports.locations.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)

#### Sent To Reports

    client.reports.sent_to.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)
    client.reports.sent_to.get(campaign_id='', subscriber_hash='')

#### Sub-Reports

    client.reports.subreports.all(campaign_id='')

#### Unsubscribes

    client.reports.unsubscribes.all(campaign_id='', get_all=False)
    client.reports.unsubscribes.get(campaign_id='', subscriber_hash='')

### Search

#### Campaigns

    client.search_campaigns.get()

#### Members

    client.search_members.get()

### Templates

#### Folders

    client.template_folders.create(data={})
    client.template_folders.all(get_all=False)
    client.template_folders.get(folder_id='')
    client.template_folders.update(folder_id='', data={})
    client.template_folders.delete(folder_id='')

#### Templates

    client.templates.create(data={})
    client.templates.all(get_all=False)
    client.templates.get(template_id='')
    client.templates.update(template_id='', data={})
    client.templates.delete(template_id='')

#### Default Content

    client.templates.default_content.all(template_id='')

## Logging

The MailChimp client will log request/response detail into the mailchimp3.client
logging namespace. Consider the following snippet to get started with logging:

```python
import logging
fh = logging.FileHandler('/path/to/some/log.log')
logger = logging.getLogger('mailchimp3.client')
logger.addHandler(fh)

# use the client normally
client.lists.all(**{'fields': 'lists.date_created'})
```

request/response detail will be appended into /path/to/some/log.log:
```
GET Request: https://us15.api.mailchimp.com/3.0/lists?fields=lists.date_created
GET Response: 200 {"lists":[{"date_created":"2017-05-10T13:53:05+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-08-22T20:27:56+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-05-12T21:22:15+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-04-27T17:42:04+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-05-10T14:14:49+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-05-10T13:52:37+00:00"},{"date_created":"2017-05-10T13:51:40+00:00"}]}
```

Check the [docs](https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.html) for more detail on the Python logging package.

## Support

If you are having issues, please let us know or submit a pull request.

## License

The project is licensed under the MIT License.
